Hi Bhuwan, I can't find an rsds file for EC-Earth3P highresSST-present anywhere in the server. I see rsds files for highresSST from climate models other than EC-Earth3P and I see rsds files for EC-Earth3P for the control experiment only.  I do not see one with the model and experiment matching that of the huss filename we were given. Is it supposed to be there, or should I be using a different file for rsds? Thanks!
 
you can go ahead and use other scenario available
 
Do you have access to modelsdev on cylo?
 
Yes
 
https://www.census.gov/geographies/mapping-files/time-series/geo/tiger-line-file.html
Boundary Shapefiles link
TIGER/Line Shapefiles
View all the available mapping files from the Geography program.
 
"\\abe-cylo\Cylo-bshah\WRC_DOR"
 
can you check if you have access to this folder
 
No, I can't access Cylo-bshah
 
i gave you access to some specific folders
 
not Cylo-bshah
 
Shah, Bhuwan P
"\\abe-cylo\Cylo-bshah\WRC_DOR"
put this in the search bar and try
 
Nothing happens when I put it in the search bar, just tries to search it using edge. In the file explorer bar, it says I don't have access
 
oh ok

i will move it to models dev
 
ok
 
"\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR"
 
test 6 is the latest script that i was working on for spatial downscaling
 
got it
 
"\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR\Spatial_Downscaling\Data_Regrided_Gridmet" has all the data needs for that script. 
 
Okay
 
I will take a look at this soon
 
sure whenever you want to
 
Hi Bhuwan, it's possible you've answered this question before and I've forgotten - if I log <10 hours in a week, can I log >10 hours in a subsequent week to make up for it or do I have to make it up on the back end (summer)?
 
we can manage that however you prefer. 
 
we can increase it later or when you do not work you can add it to that week
 
are you working on spring break?
 
Yeah, I'm on campus for spring break so I have a fair amount of time on my hands
 
I'm at 9.3 hours this week, I logged only 6 hours last week and 6.5 the week before
 
let me know if we need to discuss anything. You can log hours this week if you work.
 
So it's okay if I log more this week? >10?
 
i don't know about the limit. I will check with Ryan. 
 
i do not want to say anything about this on teams since this is signed in with isu, but we can manage the hours
 
we can chat more when we meet in person
 
Okay
 
Would the inputs to test6 be bias corrected already or raw CMIP6?
 
it is bias corrected 
 
ok
 
In your scripts, I only noticed one time where you tested bias correction after spatial downscaling. It was as a fix for some ML/DL downscaling technique, I believe you were trying to correct "variance collapse". I know this was only EQM bias correction and only applied for pr and wind, but did it fix the "variance collapse" issue and did you learn anything about bias correcting after downscaling beyond that?
 
Yes you are right
 
Ml/dl do perform well with variables like precipitation and wind
 
They just focus on reducing the mean bias 
 
And extremes are never well handled so i tried variance scaling 
 
But that didn't work

So did bias correcting after the ML/DL downscaling fix the variance collapse issue? That's different from variance scaling right?
 
No it didn't 
 
Pure stochastic method works better than ml hybrids
 
We can discuss on a call of we want. I'm available 
 
Sure
 
Frobenius norm error
 
cores
 
the bias correction data are correct. the historical has onlyt from 1850 to 2014 resta are nan and future from 2015 to 2100
 
ok
 
The noise you add in test6 - have you empirically tested whether or not it brings the data closer to reality and if it could disrupt things for WEPP?
 
i have not done tests for hydrological modeling. Also, if the test6 is doing bias correction of any sort, let's not do that since we will be doing bias correction twice 
 
reviewer won't like that
 
so make sure to just do bias correction once before or after downscaling whichever is best
 
Yeah, I wondered about that too, thanks for clarifying
 
How much have your explored adjusting your bias correction based on terrain? Is Iowa too flat for it to matter?
 
iowa is flat but bias correction is not usually done using terrain. but i may be wrong. maybe it is done nowadays
 
Idk, it was just an idea I had. I think a lot of bias correction assumes spatial uniformity, so I was wondering if this was something you had explored. I think we did talk about it during the first in person meeting a little maybe
 
yeah. that might be a good topic to explore. can you look into it
 
if they use any static feature like DEM/Slope for bias correction. but fyi only temperature is slope dependent.
 
there might be other spatial features that might help
 
Okay, I may look into it. These are my priorities right now: 

sounds good
 
if bias correction is done for the whole US or Global then elevation might be used though. so if you find out that bias correction should be donw before downscaling then we can try that
 
Right, okay

Could I have the regrid script you use to go from 100km to 4km (regrid_to_gridmet.py?)
 
Sure
 
I'll upload it to the folder
 
Thanks
 
"\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR\Spatial_Downscaling\Scripts\regrid_all_models_iowa.py"

"\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR\Spatial_Downscaling\Scripts\regrid_to_gridmet.py"
 
"\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR\Spatial_Downscaling\Scripts\test8.py"
 
i am working on s new downscaling script
 
What's going to be different in the new downscaling script?
 
no interpolation
 
if we do interpolation that is double bias correction
 
ok
 
i have added AR(1) model to have better temporal relation with added noise
 
it is a time series model
 
When you say you're working on a new downscaling script with no interpolation, do you mean a new regrid script, or new stochastic downscaler (e.g. test9.py)? Neither test6 nor test8 had any interpolation in them, right?
 
Stochastic downscaler
 
Do you know stochastic and deterministic models?
 
Ohh i tried test7 too which isn't in the folder
 
I tired interpolation but it's not allowed 
 
Stochastic just means there's a random component right?
 
Ok so there's some interpolation regrid_to_gridmet.py, and you tried some interpolation in test7, but going forward there will only be interpolation in regrid_to_gridmet because you don't want to do that twice?
 
No. 
 
I'll explain in a minute 
 
I used othc bias corrected and physics corrected outputs 
 
And then i also did some sort of bias correction in test7
 
Double bias correction causes over fitting 

Just to make sure I understand — in the new pipeline, is the bilinear interpolation in regrid_to_gridmet.py staying or being replaced?
 
Zimmerly, Elijah
Just to make sure I understand — in the new pipeline, is the bilinear interpolation in regrid_to_gridmet.py staying or being replaced?
It is
 
We need to regrid 100 km to 4 km first
 
And for precipitation i believe conservative regriding is required 
 
And we are interpolating using it's neighbours 
 
Not target
 
Target is just there as a skeleton 
 
Got it.
 
Before I test the BC first/downscale first question, I wanted to see what would happen if I ran everything through test8 but replaced regrid_to_gridmet with a version that just uses nearest neighbor instead of bilinear interpolation. Whenever you get the chance, could you upload the Cropped_BC_MPI and Cropped_GridMET folders to modelsdev?
 
Sure
 
I'm out now..will do later
 
Ofc, have a good Friday night
 
You too.
 
\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR\Bias_Correction\Data
 
has all bias corrected
 
they are whole us. i will need to run the cropping script and save it. i will do that tomorrow and let you know
 
so i have two versions of bias corrected: just bias corrected and then bias corrected + physics corrected
 
which one do you want?
 
there are cropping script in spatial downscaling folder if you want to run but if not i can do it for you too to save time. 
 
let me know, i can crop all raw, bias corrected and bias corrected plus physics corrected. then we can downscle all and see which one works best
 
Physics corrected is good. I can crop it myself, or you can crop it first either one. I still need the GridMET data from before the regridding (.nc, not .dat) also I think
 
also please do not feel obliged to respond after working hours
 
i will copy the gridmet
 
that will be same CONUS
 
Shah, Bhuwan P
also please do not feel obliged to respond after working hours
Same for you of course
 
"\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR\CONUS"
 
will have gridmet
 
it is going through right now. i will do the cropping tomorrow and ping you
 
thank you for your hard work
 
have a good night
 
Thank you!

"\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR\Data"
 
Elijah, I have added all the cropped data to this folder
 
it has been cropped to Iowa
 
it has dem, coastal distance  and windeffect too
 
they might help with spatial downscaling if you want to explore. I have used DEM but I have not explored others extensively
 
Sorry, I should've let you know but I already did the cropping and accomplished what I wanted to. Do we have a meeting scheduled in the next couple days? If not, we should call at some point so I can show you what I've done and you can give me feedback
 
sure
 
I am available tomorrow. does 3 pm work?
 
Yes, that works
 
great
 
Elijah i am free rn if you want to chat. 3 also works though
 
regrid_comparison_report.html
 
KGE has 3 compnents
 
https://gemini.google.com/share/f1febcd44742
 
https://nex-gddp-cmip6.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/index.html#NEX-GDDP-CMIP6/MPI-ESM1-2-HR/ssp585/r1i1p1f1/
NEX-GDDP-CMIP6 | Data Browse
 
Hi Bhuwan, looked at some other climate downscaling papers. Everyone that didn't use some kind of analog-based method used bilinear, and nobody questioned it except ISIMIP3, who considered conservative, and they didn't do any kind of quantitative testing. Their comparison was qualitative - they just assumed that providing smoother looking data as a starting point for their stochastic downscaling step would produce better outputs. So - no, nobody has used nearest neighbor for the regridding, but that's also not necessarily justified. I also looked into the analog-based approaches and generated some helpful visualizations to understand them, which are also attached. I concluded that some kind of deterministic regridding (bilinear interpolation or nearest neighbor) is definitely the right call for our pipeline. 
nn-regridding-literature-review.md
regridding_methods_visualizations.html
 
Yes regarding is required. I'll look into the documents later. Thank you so much. I really appreciate your hard work and most importantly interest in this research 
 
In the regriding document is the plot and the slider supposed to work
 
Method 01's slider should work yes
 
i looked through both documents. when do you wanna talk about it?
 
I'm free today 12-1, 2:10-3:10, and after 4:20
 
lets do 12 
 
Ok, sounds good 
 
You ready?
 
yes
 
spatial autocorrelation
 
Here's the plots for bilinear vs nearest neighbor before and after test8 across 3 individual dates. For NN, some variables do have a little bit of visible blockiness, and some don't. When it's there, it's pretty faint. pr is still just conservative, it's mislabeled. I'll leave it up to you whether this blockiness is a flag that we should avoid NN, or if we should trust the quantitative metrics as a greater source of truth.
Pre_Post_Test8_Gallery_Bhuwan.pdf
 
This looks great. How about we do both and answer to the question. This will be interesting in climate community 
 
And publish a paper 
 
Can you check the extremes p99
 
And implement nearest neighbour, bilinear and conservative all three for precip too
 
Precip is the most important variable 
 
Conservative regriding is the most expensive step. 
 
Since downscaling is done one var at a time
 
You can just run 3 cases for precip
 
To save time 
 
When you say "check the extremes p99", do you mean the Ext99 numbers we already have or spatial maps of the per-pixel 99th percentile, or something else?
 
Yes ext99
 
As in if these are better in nn
 
If extremes are well captured in nn compared to bilinear 
 
We already did this though, right? Are you just asking me to look at it again? As I recall, the difference was negligible for all except wind, where NN was a little better
regrid_comparison_report 1.html
 
yes but not for precipitaiton
 
i want to compare nn, bilinear and conservative for precipitation too
 
is nn possible for precip i am not sure if that is scientifically and statistically correct. but bilinear is done for precip like your report says
 
Yes, we've never looked at bilinear or nn for pr. I can do that
 
Everything's in here, including the new 3 way comparison for pr. I had deleted most of the data to save space, so I had to run the pipeline again. Because some of the stochastic elements, you'll notice the metric numbers for bilinear vs nn for everything except pr changed a bit since last time, but they're pretty similar.
combined_regrid_report.html
 
thanks Elijah. now lets work on spatial downscaling specifically for precipitation conserving the extremes and handling the wet day frequency. We can use any regriding method for now and run the finalized downscaling script on several regriding methods to compare. we can also compare bias correction before and after downscaling
 
i have an external ssd if you want to use for storage.
 
Okay, I agree. I'll let you know if I need the SSD
 
sounds good

Elijah, do we need to meet to talk about anything? also how interested are you in writing? as in research articles to be published in peer reviewed journals
 
It would be great if we could meet to talk about research opportunities for this summer. As for writing, I am definitely interested.
 
sure
 
when are you available
 
I don't have a ton of time today. I could maybe meet between noon and  1, or after 6. Do you work on the weekends at all? I'm free pretty much all day Saturday and Sunday
 
it's not urgent. but we can do Saturday around 10
 
That work for me. When you said meet did you mean in person and if so where?
 
whatever works for you. we can do in person too next week if you want
 
I really don't have a preference
 
alright lets chat Saturday 10 then. since you mentioned summer, you want to continue working through summer right?
 
Yes, I do. And if that's not possible, then I would appreciate some advice about where I can find other opportunities 
 
sure, i will discuss with ryan and let you know
 
Thank you
 
just to confirm, we're having a teams meeting at 10am?
 
Yeah. I talked with Ryan the other day about you wanting to work through summer. He said it might be possible. We three need to do a meeting and discuss 
 
Regarding today, did you make any progress on the spatial downscaling? That we can see and discuss. If not then let's not meet today. I'll set-up a meeting with you and Ryan next week 
 
If you have any questions or need to discuss then we can meet too. 
 
I haven't really made any progress, no, I've been pretty busy with my courses since Tuesday. I'm working right now, but I may not have anything to share by 10am
 
Sure np. We can meet next week 
 
When can the 3 of us have a meeting? I'm trying to nail down my summer plans, so the sooner the better
 
Actually you can go ahead and schedule a meeting 
 
Based on everyone's availability 
 
Use outlook calendar or teams scheduling feature 
 
Okay, will do
 
How did test8_v2 do on the metrics? Extremes and WDF?
 
It was better. I also used bilinear interpolation for precipitation 
 
Which worked well for extremes
 
How much better? Could I have the csv
 
Sure. I'll upload the results 
 
thanks
 
I scheduled a meeting for you, me, and Ryan for 11am on Tuesday. I'd never used the teams meeting scheduler before so let me know if it looks okay
 
Looks fine
 
Got it
 
Let me know when the results are uploaded. By the way, it looks like I can access some folders in the server that I wasn't able to before, such as \\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\Bhuwan
 
It's been copied right now
 
In wrc dor under spatial downscaling 
 
Test8_v2 folder
 
Zimmerly, Elijah
Let me know when the results are uploaded. By the way, it looks like I can access some folders in the server that I wasn't able to before, such as \\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\Bhuwan
This is my personal folder and doesn't have anything for this project 
 
Oh
 
The script might not produce similar results i have because i have edited the weights for spatial autocorrelation. I need to tune that for better results 
 
\\abe-cylo\modelsdev\Projects\WRC_DOR\Spatial_Downscaling\test8_v2
 
has the new results
 
Thanks
Could you remind me how the usage limits work for Cursor?
 
You can check your usage on cursor website 
 
It's cap at $20
 
For the semester?
 
No per month 
 
Got it
 
Also as a student you get 1 year Gemini pro free
 
You can use antigravity 
 
If you used up cursor
 
That's good to know, thank you
 
To improve pr extremes, I tested a version of test8_v2 but with an intensity-dependent ratio for pr, similar to the one you tried in test6. Unlike test6, I added a scalar PR_INTENSITY_BLEND that dampens the intensity correction (PR_INTENSITY_BLEND=1 would be like what you did in test6). Dampening this adjustment gets ext99 closer to 0 rather than shooting past 0 and lessens the increase in RMSE. 
PR_INTENSITY_EXPLAINED.md
pr_validation_metrics_ranked.csv.xlsx
 
That's great. What method did you use for regriding
 
And did it only affect precipitation?
 
bilinear, so it would be comparable with your test8_v2 run. And I'm not sure about the other variables, let me check
 
I didn't change the formulas for any of the other variables, but because some things are multivariate I will check the metrics to see if changes in pr affected them
 
Sounds good.
 
No, none of the metrics for the other variables changed in a significant way as a result of pr changing
 
Can you benchmark it with already available datasets (nasa, loca2) and literature published. 
 
I'll upload the nasa and loca2 on server 
 
Zimmerly, Elijah
No, none of the metrics for the other variables changed in a significant way as a result of pr changing
Sounds good 
 
And is this the final downscaling script or do you wanna look into some other ways
 
That depends, how satisfied are you with the metrics?
 
Yeah first we need to compare our results with already available products 
 
If it's better than them then we are good to go
 
Got it, okay. Let me know when nasa and loca2 are uploaded and I'll do that
 
Sounds good 
 
I have started copying the datasets. before that do you want to contribute to bias correction? i am trying to wrap it up and get the manuscript ready
 
I'll look into contributing to bias correction, but given how much you've researched bias correction methods I suspect there isn't a lot I can do to improve the method itself. I do still wonder what bias correcting after would do though
 
well the bias correction has already been done. it will be more like checking if everything is correct and if i messed up antyhing
 
plotting
 
and writing the manuscript which we will owrk on it together. i have already done about 70% of the manuscript
 
Okay. What exactly would I be checking/plotting then?
 
checking if i implemented all the methods correctly and plotting the reuslts
 
Sure, I can do that
 
sounds good. i will make the folder ready for you and we can setup a meeting to discuss
 
okay
 
loca2 and nasa have been uploaded please check.
 
you will need to crop them to iowa
 
Yup, they're here
 
As far as I can tell, everything in the bias correction step is implemented correctly. 
report.html
 
I'm starting on the benchmarking
 
have you tried antigravity? do you prefer cursor or anti gravity?
 
So far I've been able to get by using Cursor auto, so I haven't gotten a chance to try antigravity. The only thing I really miss is access to opus 4.6, and when I need it I just use my personal Claude Code account.
 
sounds good
 
Okay, I have some results from the benchmarking against LOCA2 and NEX. Summary: DOR beats the other two on extreme precipitation and tasmin. DOR beats NEX on rsds, huss and wind (LOCA2 does not have those variables). DOR is weak on pr RMSE and WDF (too rainy). DOR is also a little behind on KGE and RMSE for tasmax. I would say that we have a good, publishable product but we could probably improve those areas where we're behind without losing our edge in the extremes. 
dor-weaknesses.md
benchmark_summary.csv
 
What's dor?
 
Drops of Resilience
 
Oh ok
 
That sounds great. Will you share the latest downscaling script you ran
 
Let's fix those things so that our method is superior 
 
Also make sure to plot the validation period for each var with the target side by side. Sometimes metrics look good but plots do not
 
Mean extremes bias...
 
Do we need to meet and chat about the plan?
 
It's this script. The run I benchmarked was done with: PR_USE_INTENSITY_RATIO=1
PR_INTENSITY_BLEND=0.65
PR_INTENSITY_OUT_TAG=blend0p65 (matches the folder name)
TEST8_SEED=42 (per manifest)
TEST8_MAIN_PERIOD_ONLY=1
test8_v2_pr_intensity.py
 
I'll get right on the plots. We can meet if you want, or otherwise I can just generate the plots, look at them and send them to you, and then brainstorm how to fix the pr RMSE and WDF
 
Sounds good 
 
Here's the plots. There's plots across 4 individual days, plots aggregated over the whole time period and plots aggregated seasonally. The individual day ones are less helpful because the GCM isn't trying to match the historical period day for day, but it is interesting to see that some of the GCM cell boundaries actually made it through to the final product, leaving it looking a little blocky day to day. I don't think that's a big deal though. The time-aggregated plots look pretty good. Wind is still our worst variable, but I think it's okay to leave it like that since our wind is still better than NEX. Interestingly, our time-aggregated precipitation is more splotchy than GridMet, which I think is due to some issues with our spatial downscaling script. This is actually fixable, so I am going to work on that next. I think if I can fix this, it will help our pr RMSE also. I also have a plan for pr WDF.
dor side-by-side.zip
 
Here are my Claude Code plans for next steps
FIX-PR-SPLOTCHINESS-PLAN.md
FIX-WDF-OVERPREDICTION-PLAN.md
 
yes day to day will never match, the aggregated plots look fine. let's also think of how can we fix the wind. it is underpredicting the numbers but the spatial patches looks like the target
 
i will also look into wind
 
you can focus on precipitaiton
 
and thank you
 
Will do, you're welcome
 
 