Would the inputs to test6 be bias corrected already or raw CMIP6?
 
it is bias corrected 
 
ok
 
In your scripts, I only noticed one time where you tested bias correction after spatial downscaling. It was as a fix for some ML/DL downscaling technique, I believe you were trying to correct "variance collapse". I know this was only EQM bias correction and only applied for pr and wind, but did it fix the "variance collapse" issue and did you learn anything about bias correcting after downscaling beyond that?
 
Yes you are right
 
Ml/dl do perform well with variables like precipitation and wind
 
They just focus on reducing the mean bias 
 
And extremes are never well handled so i tried variance scaling 
 
But that didn't work
 
So did bias correcting after the ML/DL downscaling fix the variance collapse issue? That's different from variance scaling right?
 
No it didn't 
 
Pure stochastic method works better than ml hybrids
 
We can discuss on a call of we want. I'm available 
 
Sure
 
Frobenius norm error
 
cores
 
the bias correction data are correct. the historical has onlyt from 1850 to 2014 resta are nan and future from 2015 to 2100
 
ok
 
The noise you add in test6 - have you empirically tested whether or not it brings the data closer to reality and if it could disrupt things for WEPP?
 
i have not done tests for hydrological modeling. Also, if the test6 is doing bias correction of any sort, let's not do that since we will be doing bias correction twice 
 
reviewer won't like that
 
so make sure to just do bias correction once before or after downscaling whichever is best
 
Yeah, I wondered about that too, thanks for clarifying
 
How much have your explored adjusting your bias correction based on terrain? Is Iowa too flat for it to matter?
 
iowa is flat but bias correction is not usually done using terrain. but i may be wrong. maybe it is done nowadays
 
Idk, it was just an idea I had. I think a lot of bias correction assumes spatial uniformity, so I was wondering if this was something you had explored. I think we did talk about it during the first in person meeting a little maybe
 
yeah. that might be a good topic to explore. can you look into it
 
if they use any static feature like DEM/Slope for bias correction. but fyi only temperature is slope dependent.
 
there might be other spatial features that might help
 
Okay, I may look into it. These are my priorities right now: 
 
sounds good
 
if bias correction is done for the whole US or Global then elevation might be used though. so if you find out that bias correction should be donw before downscaling then we can try that
 